According to Wikipedia, a user guide has:
	A cover page
	A preface, containing details of related documents and information on how to navigate the user guide
	A contents page
	A guide on how to use at least the main functions of the system
	A troubleshooting section detailing possible errors or problems that may occur, along with how to fix them
	A FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions)
	Where to find further help, and contact details
	A glossary


We should include:

	How to navigate our web application:
		How to find a desired view
		How to open the view
		How to close the view
		
	How to use views:
		How to add data
		How to edit data
		How to write free-form queries 
		
	How to know which view to use:
		Passenger-Use this view if you are or would like to become a passenger on train voyage. This view will allow you to create, delete, or update your passenger profile which will house and display all of you train ticket information (past and future).  This view will also allow you to see all upcoming train voyages. This view will not allow you to purchase train tickets, you will have to do this through your travel agent to do this. 
		
		Travel Agent- Use this view if you work for an independent, mega, regional, of consortium travel agency. This view will allow you to view up to date vacancies in different classes on train voyages, (including the voyages departure, place, time and date, and arrival place time and date).  You will be able to add your customers to the train database, and purchase ,and cancel tickets on their behalf. This view will also allow you delete, update and create customer information in the train database. You will not be able to update customer ticket information, this must be done by deleting and repurchasing a ticket. 
		
		Employee- Use this view if you work for the train company. The view will list all train voyages you will be scheduled to work on.  This view will not allow you to trade/drop/add shifts to your schedule, you with talk to your scheduling manager  to do so. 

		Manager (Employee Scheduler) - Use this view to schedule staff for train voyage. This view will allow you to view all train voyages and the train and cars (including engine) involved in the voyages in order to appropriately schedule staff. You will also be able to add, delete and update employee information.

		Manager (Train Scheduler)-Use this view to schedule train voyages. This view will allow you to add, update and delete train voyages that will occur in the future. You cannot add new train routs, all voyages must run on existing routes. 
		
		Head Office-Use this view allows you to change rudimentary aspects of the train system .This view allows you to add, update, and delete train routes, track sections, train stations, and engines. 
